DOCS-8052-JMS-index-kt (#1356)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: jms/1.7/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

= JMS Connector - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::jms/jms-connector.adoc, connectors::jms/jms-about.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

> Anypoint Connector for JMS (Java Message Service) (JMS Connector) enables sending and receiving messages to queues and topics for any message service that implements the JMS specification. JMS is a widely-used API for message oriented middleware. It enables the communication between different components of a distributed application to be loosely coupled, reliable, and asynchronous. The JMS Connector main features include:

Reviewer: Never use a hyphen after a word ending in -ly, per style ref/English grammar. GLOBAL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for JMS (Java Message Service) (JMS Connector) enables sending and receiving messages to queues and topics for any message service that implements the JMS specification. JMS is a widely used API for message-oriented middleware. It enables the communication between different components of a distributed application to be loosely coupled, reliable, and asynchronous. The main features of JMS Connector include:
```

* Publish and subscribe pattern support on any given destination.
* Listen and reply pattern support on any given destination.

> * Publish-Consume pattern support on any given destination, with a fixed or temporary reply queue.

Reviewer 2: I don't know about this Publish-Consume. For parallel structure, should it be like the others and just say Publish and consume pattern? OR make the others like this one Publish-Subscribe, Listen-Reply...
Although, I also don't know about the caps. Should it be Publish-consume or Publish-Consume? idk

> * Publish and consume pattern support on any given destination, with a fixed or temporary reply queue.

Reviewer: No periods, because all the items in this list are fragments.

If they were all sentences, they would each end with a period.

In a mixed list (fragments and sentences), all items would have to end with periods...which is why it's best to not create mixed lists, if at all possible.

* Fully compliant with JMS 2.0, 1.1, and 1.0.2 specifications.

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* Creating a Mule app using Anypoint Studio (Studio)

Before creating an app, you must have access to Anypoint Platform and Anypoint Studio.

== Common Use Cases for the Connector

JMS Connector enables you to:

> * Listen for new messages as they arrive to the destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Listen for new messages as they arrive at the destination.
```
Do we mean, here and in the next sentence,...
the destination (an understood example)
the specified destination (understood and specified)
a destination (any destination)
a specified destination (any specified destination)

* Publish a new message and send it to the specified destination.

> * Consume a message at any given time in the flow from any given destination.

Reviewer 2: I think if you are consuming the message FROM, it should be the source, not the destination?

Reviewer 2: From the source, to the destination...

> * Consume a message at any given time in the flow from any given destination.

Reviewer: "given" = "specified"?
Use consistent terminology or make distinctions among similar terms very clear to the audience.

> * Publish a message to any destination, and then wait for a reply on a different destination.

Reviewer: So...the same entity that is publishing a message then waits for a reply to that message?
What does "on a different destination" mean: different from which other destination? The one published to? Why would a different destination reply to a message sent to another destination?
Clarify.

For examples, see xref:jms-examples.adoc[JMS Connector Examples].

== JMS Messaging Support Models

JMS supports two models for messaging:

* Point-to-point queues
* Publish and subscribe topics

=== Point-to-Point Queues

> In the point-to-point or queuing model, a sender posts messages to a particular queue and a receiver reads messages from the queue. In this model, the sender knows the destination of the message and posts the message directly to the receiver’s queue.

Reviewer: The title names "point-to-point queuing model" but the first sentence adds "or": "point-to-point or queuing model."
Are we naming one model or two?

Reviewer: "and a receiver reads messages from _that_ queue"? (the same queue sent to)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the point-to-point queuing model, a sender posts messages to a particular queue and a receiver reads those messages from that same queue. In this model, the sender knows the destination of the message and posts directly to it.
```

Reviewer: Note that this text uses...:
- sender posts message
- receiver reads message
- destination
However, the following text uses...:
- consumer receives message
- sender
- consumer consumes
- message is sent
- message is processed
Can we standardize to one term for each of sender, receiver, sent, and received?

> The point-to-point queuing model is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The point-to-point queuing model operates as follows:
```

* Only one consumer receives the message.

> * The sender does not need to be running at the time the consumer consumes the message, nor does the consumer need to be running at the time the message is sent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The sender does not need to be running at the time the consumer consumes the message, and the consumer does not need to be running at the time the message is sent.
```

> * The sender does not need to be running at the time the consumer consumes the message, and the consumer does not need to be running at the time the message is sent.

Reviewer: Would it be accurate to reduce this to:
```suggestion
* The sender and the receiver do not need to be running at the same time.
```

* Every message that is successfully processed is acknowledged by the consumer.

=== Publish and Subscribe Topics

> The publish-subscribe model supports publishing messages to a particular message topic. Subscribers can register to receive messages on a particular message topic. In this model, neither the publisher nor the subscriber are aware of each other. An anonymous bulletin board is a good analogy for this concept.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, see, here you have it as publish-subscribe

> The publish and subscribe model supports publishing messages to a particular message topic. Subscribers can register to receive messages on a particular message topic. In this model, neither the publisher nor the subscriber are aware of each other. An anonymous bulletin board is a good analogy for this concept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The publish and subscribe model supports a sender in publishing messages to a particular message topic rather than directly to a particular queue. Subscribers register to receive messages about a particular message topic, regardless of who sends it. In this model, neither the sender nor the receiver are aware of each other. An anonymous bulletin board is a good analogy for this concept.
```

> The publish and subscribe model is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The publish and subscribe model operates as follows:
```

> * Multiple consumers (or none) receive the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Any number of consumers receive the message, including none if there are no subscribers to the topic.
```

> * The publisher must create a message topic to which clients can subscribe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The publisher must create a message topic in such a way that consumers can subscribe to that topic.
```

> * The subscriber must remain continuously active to receive messages, unless it has established a durable subscription, in which case, messages published while the subscriber is not connected are redistributed when the subscriber reconnects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The subscriber must remain continuously active to receive messages, unless it has established a durable subscription in which messages published while the subscriber is inactive are made available when the subscriber becomes active again.
```

== Next Step

> After you complete the prerequisites, you are ready to create your own app and configure the connector using xref:database-connector-studio.adoc[Anypoint Studio].

Reviewer 2: Is this the right xref? Should be jms connector, right?

JMS supports two models for messaging:

* Point-to-point queues
* Publish and subscribe topics

=== Point-to-Point Queues

In the point-to-point queuing model, a sender posts messages to a particular queue and a receiver reads those messages from that same queue. In this model, the sender knows the destination of the message and posts the message directly to it.

The point-to-point queuing model operates as follows:

* Only one receiver consumes the received message.
* The sender does not need to be running at the time the receiver consumes the message, and the receiver does not need to be running at the time the message is sent.
* Every message that is successfully processed is acknowledged by the receiver.

=== Publish and Subscribe Topics

The publish and subscribe model supports a sender in publishing messages to a particular message topic rather than directly to a particular queue. Receivers subscribe to consume the receive messages on a particular message topic. In this model, neither the sender nor the receiver are aware of each other. An anonymous bulletin board is a good analogy for this concept.

The publish and subscribe model operates as follows:

> * Multiple receivers consume the receive the message, including none if there are no subscribers to the topic.

Reviewer 3: it sounds a little bit strange "Multiple receivers consume the receive the message"
